this is a demonstration on how to use
Yasu which is short for yet another
software wizard which is a bit like scan
tailor but it does peak post processing
of images when you're taking them with
your book scanner
so first of all you click on the left
hand side of the screen there and you
want to add some of the images that were
taken from the left side of the book so
add image it's a good idea to have all
your all your pictures into labelled
folders so I'm going to choose the left
side here and I'll just choose a few of
the pages from this book you can click
and hold the control at the same time
just like more than one at the time so
we'll click on those
and bring those into the left side then
we click on the right side here and
we'll import some images from the other
folder which is the right folder and
I've taken a few pages from that too
so they're you I you've got the left
pages and the right pages now we'll
start with the left hand side first of
all and what we want to do is to make
sure that the any filters any changes
that we apply to the first page will be
propagated through other rest of the
document so I'm going to click on here
and - all following images of the side
and that will mean if any changes we
make to the first one will be replicated
and these other ones on this side so
first of all we want to rotate this one
and it needs to be rotated to the left
so the fit we're on the first tab here
we'll click on the first image and
rotate it to the left and then we can do
a preview just to see if it's worked all
right yes it has and that will have
being propagated to all of those ones
now we click on the right-hand side and
that's going to go to the right there it
is
so that's the first filter that's
applied to the documents and all of
those all other haven't shown up here
has been changed they will all have been
changed right we'll go back to the left
side again and we want to do keep d
keysto me now but click on that now
Keystone e is where the image isn't
quite rectangular and you see this image
here is not fully rectangular slightly
narrower at the top so you have to drag
this little peak this little 4 handled
guide here to the four corners of the
page so we drag the start with a bottom
right and drag it down to that roughly
and then we'll take the top right and
drag it over there
bottom left
and finally the top left and you might
want to make a few little modifications
actually this looks okay and we can
preview that now and you see that's now
a rectangular and that will be
propagated to all the ones on the left
side now we'll do the right-hand side
and but just take take the preview on
what off to show the the handles and
we'll drag this one down now to the
right-hand side
you get it as close as you can and then
maybe just make a few little tweaks and
she go along that one needs doing down
there
I think that's all right right now we're
gonna go to have a look at the preview
yep that's good we'll do the left side
outside again now and we're going to do
cropping now this time you get a square
with two handles on and not the fall
like in the decode the key styling and
you just drag it to the bottom right
and to the top left of the image
and that marks out the area that you
want to be retained from this picture so
all this garbage around here is going to
go we preview that and that's the kind
of image you're going to get do the same
on the right hand side click off the
preview and we'll do the cropping there
and take that one down too
and we just have a preview of that one
that's okay
then finally you go on to the scaling
and first of all I like to use
millimeters so millimeters is okay but
there are other options there pixels are
inches but I'm going to use millimeters
I'm also going to put it on the highest
level of resolution which is 600 dots
and then the resulting image size I want
this to be the same size as the original
book now my broccoli is 105 millimeters
by 150 millimeters and so that shows the
book as it's going to come out so that's
the finished sort of image really and
then you can export to JPEG formats
I'll put it into that folder there
select the folder and those will be
exported into that folder now one thing
just I would like to mention if you find
there we go thank you
if you find as you're going down the
image you see if you've got a long book
it could be that your book moves a
little bit or has moved a little bit
when you were taking the images so you
may find that the keystoning or the
cropping need to be modified a bit
further down well it's okay to do that
because if you look at the bottom here
you can make a modification to any of
the images way down here maybe the 30th
or 40th page and change and make changes
and it will go to all the following
images on the side so you can actually
correct things sequentially going down
if you find this something that's wrong
you can check it out and make
corrections and that will be propagated
forwards at the end of the book so there
we go it's a very good piece of software
quite easy to use once you've figured it
out and it's very it gives a nice
quality picture now these if you look at
the images here
this particular image you can see quite
a bit of bleed through from the other
side of the page and what I do from this
I use this as the output of the Yasu a
program has an input into scan tailor
which is another free program because
scan tear that is very good at removing
all that sort of grayness and giving you
a very crisp black and white image in
very good resolution so all that
background stuff which you don't want on
now on this grayscale image will be
removed by scan tailor and give you a
lovely crisp black-and-white image so
those two programs together are very
good indeed and I'd like to thank both
of the authors for the hard work that
they've done in preparing them hope this
helps thank you